**Sun's version**
Stellar feedback is predicted to carve channels through dense neutral gas reservoirs of galaxies at z=6-9, paving the way for Lyman-continuum photons escape and thus cosmic reionization. To confirm this, we need to resolve the structures of interstellar medium (ISM) to sub-kpc scale. This is extremely challenging at the Epoch of Reionization (EoR) even with JWST. However, analogs of EoR galaxies might present at lower redshifts, and they can provide valuable insights of ionizing photon escape channels with strong lensing aid.

We propose JWST/NIRSpec IFU observation of A2744-arc3, a strongly lensed dwarf galaxy at z=4 as an ideal laboratory for z>8, which can be resolved down to 10-30-pc scale with JWST. It presents extreme ionization conditions and ultra strong damped Lya absorption system (DLA). The asymmetric profiles of ISM absorption and residual Lya flux in the DLA trough indicate the presence of outflows and ongoing formation of escape channels, With high S/N [NeIII], [OII] , Hb and [OIII] detection, we will (1) directly map the extreme ionization conditions and outflows through spatially resolved emission line ratios and velocity distributions, (2) establish the spatial link between outflows and high-escape-fraction regions and (3) determine the origins driving extreme outflows. No thorough analysis on such z=4 analogs was conducted before. Combining this IFU observation with abundant ancillary datasets (MUSE, HST and JWST) spanning from rest-frame UV to optical, our program will shed light on the formation of escape pathways for z>8 galaxies, and promise significant observational benchmarks for existing EoR theoretical framework.


**X.Lin's orginal**
Stellar feedback is predicted to carve ionized channels to aid the escape of ionizing photons through dense neutral gas reservoirs into intergalactic medium (IGM).  A detailed picture of this process requires resolving the interstellar medium (ISM) structure on sub-kpc scales, which has been challenging and costly at z>8. On the other hand, local analogs may not be genuine counterparts. Nevertheless, the redshift range of 3-4 provides a favorable redshift window in a more cost-effective way: restframe UV lines could be captured by ground-based optical facilities and optical lines by JWST in a single shot. This motivates us to propose JWST/NIRSpec IFU on A2744-arc3, a strongly lensed dwarf galaxy at z=4 as an ideal analog to z>8, resolved down to physical scales of 10-30 pc with JWST. It presents extreme ionization conditions and ultra strong damped Lya absorption system (DLA). Residual lya flux in the DLA and the asymmetric profiles of ISM absorption indicate the presence of outflows and ongoing formation of escape channels. With high S/N optical emission lines ([NeIII], [OII], Hb and [OIII]), we are able to directly investigate the ongoing formation of escape pathways by (1) mapping the extreme ionization conditions and outflows through spatially resolved emission line ratios and velocity fields, (2) establishing the direct spatial link between outflows and regions indicative of high photon escape, (3) figuring out the origins of extreme outflows responsible for carving the ionized channels. Combing the proposed IFU data with abundant ancillary datasets (MUSE, HST and JWST) spanning from UV to optical, this proposal will provide invaluable insights into the escape of ionizing photon through massive neutral gas reservoir for  z>8 galaxies, and promise significant observational benchmarks for existing EoR theoretical framework.