**Sun's version**
One of the most surprising JWST discoveries is the ubiquity of low-luminosity AGNs at z>4, with moderate supermassive black hole (SMBH) masses of 1e7-1e8 Msun. Theoretical models predict that these low-luminosity AGNs are triggered by gas-rich mergers, and are progenitors of luminous quasars at z~<2. However, currently there is no direct observational test to these predictions, especially the gaseous environments that fuels the BH growth.

We propose KCRM observations to directly establish the evolutionary picture of low-luminosity AGN at z=4-5. 
We carefully select three low-luminosity AGNs from JWST spectroscopy that represent different evolutionary stages as implied by theoretical models. By mapping their LyA emission, resolving the LyA spectral profile and comparing with theoretical predictions, we will (1) decipher the gas flow in different AGN evolutionary stages, and (2) constrain the cool gas amount that fuels the BH growth. We will also search for LyA emitters around these AGNs, unveiling the environment they reside, and thus providing key but missing insights into the ubiquitous low-luminosity AGN population in the early Universe (z=4-9).


**X.Lin's original**
One of the most surprising JWST discoveries is a ubiquitous population of low-luminosity AGNs at z>4, with moderate supermassive black holes (SMBH) of 1e7-1e8 Msun. Their red optical continuum slope suggests obscured early SMBH growth. Theoretical models predict that these low-luminosity AGNs are triggered by gas-rich mergers, and are progenitors of luminous quasars. However, no direct observational evidence is currently obtained to test the theoretical picture, especially the gaseous environment that fuels the BH growth. 

We propose KCRM observations to map the LyA emission of three low-luminosity AGNs at z=4-5, to trace the cool gas in the interstellar and circumstellar medium. The three targets are selected from existing JWST/NIRCam grism spectroscopy and represent different evolutionary stages as implied by theoretical models.  We will resolve and model the LyA spectral shape, and measure the surface brightness profiles of the extended LyA halos.  These enable us to (1) decipher the gas flow in different evolutionary stages, and (2) constrain the cool gas amount that supplies the fuel for BH growth.  These key quantities provide a direct test of the theoretical picture.  KCRM also allows us to detect LyA emitters around the AGNs, providing valuable insights into the environment they reside. The proposed observations will be a pilot study to reveal the nature of low-luminosity AGN populations in the early Universe.